On November 15, 2023, President Joe Biden nominated Adeel A. Mangi to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Mangi is currently a partner at Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler LLP. If confirmed, Mr. Mangi will be the first Muslim to serve as a federal appellate court judge.

Read our letter of support.


Biography

Adeel Mangi was born in 1977 in Karachi, Pakistan. He earned a First Class Degree in Law from the University of Oxford, Pembroke College, in 1998. He earned his Postgraduate Diploma in Professional Legal Skills from the City University London Inns of Court School of Law in 1999 and his LL.M. from Harvard Law School in 2000.


Legal Experience

After his graduation from Harvard Law School, Mr. Mangi joined Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler LLP as an Associate, in which capacity he served from 2000-2009. He was promoted to Counsel in 2009 and became a Partner in 2010. He has consistently demonstrated exceptional skills as a versatile civil litigator during his impressive 23-year tenure at Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler LLP. Over the years, he has handled intricate commercial litigation in state and federal courts across the nation.

Mr. Mangi’s extensive legal experience spans a diversity of fields, including commercial joint venture agreements, false advertising, trade secret misappropriation, antitrust issues, consumer protection, and class action lawsuits. Most of his clients have been major corporations in a variety of industries. Furthermore, Mr. Mangi has demonstrated his commitment to civil rights by taking on noteworthy cases pro bono. He has managed appeals in both federal and state cases.


Professional Activities and Accolades

Benchmark Litigation named Mr. Mangi to its 2024 and 2023 lists of the “Top 100 Trial Lawyers” in the U.S. This elite group consists of partners venerated by peers and clients for excelling at the nuanced practice of trial law. This award is given based on representative work, including both confidential and public materials. He also received the “Client Service All-Star” award from The BTI Consulting Group. This award recognizes attorneys who “stand above all the others in delivering the absolute best in client service’’ Mr. Mangi has also been named a “Rising Star” by the New York Law Journal and a “Rising Star” by the Minority Corporate Counsel Association’s Diversity & the Bar magazine. He was previously named as one of the National Asian Pacific American Bar Association’s “Best Lawyers Under 40.” This list recognizes “the achievements of the nation’s most accomplished legal partners” aged 40 and under.

The following cases are representative of Mangi’s legal career: