On April 24, 2024, President Biden nominated Judge Anne Hwang to the United States District Court for the Central District of California. Hwang currently serves as a judge on the Superior Court of California in Los Angeles County.

Read our letter of support.

Read our factsheet.


Biography

Anne Hwang was born in 1975 in Los Angeles, California. She earned her B.A from Cornell University in 1997 and her J.D. from the University of Southern California Law School in 2002.


Legal Experience

Following law school, Hwang began her legal career as a litigation associate at Irell & Manella LLP. During her tenure, she handled a diverse range of civil and criminal cases, including business disputes and federal criminal cases involving securities and tax fraud charges. Transitioning to public service after two years at a firm, Hwang dedicated over a decade to the Office of the Federal Public Defender, Central District of California from 2006 to 2018, where she advocated for indigent defendants accused of federal crimes. Initially, she served as a Deputy Federal Public Defender in Santa Ana from 2006 to 2010 before becoming Deputy Federal Public Defender in Los Angeles from 2010 to 2014. Hwang was then promoted to Supervising Deputy Federal Public Defender (2014 to 2016) and then to Trial Chief Deputy (2016 to 2018.) Hwang left the Federal Public Defender’s Office as Deputy Federal Defender in 2018. Her practice primarily focused on representing clients in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, the very court she has now been appointed to. In addition to trial advocacy, she handled appellate, habeas corpus, and post-conviction matters, as well as various federal proceedings such as grand jury investigations and treaty transfer cases.


Judicial Experience

In 2018 Hwang was appointed to the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles, a court of general jurisdiction, where she has served since 2019. Initially assigned to the Criminal Division from January 2019 to July 2023, Judge Hwang oversaw traffic infraction arraignments and trials, followed by a stint in misdemeanor trial courts. Since transitioning to the Civil Division in July 2023, she now presides over civil cases involving personal injury claims until they are ready for trial. In her current role, Judge Hwang manages all proceedings in these matters, except for the trial itself.

The following cases are representative of Hwang’s judicial career: