President Trump nominated Brett Talley on September 7, 2017 to the United States District Court for the Middle District of Alabama. Talley is exceptionally young, like several of Trump’s judicial nominees, and he lacks significant legal experience. However, he has firmly established conservative political credentials, as a former writer for Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign, a former speechwriter for Sen. Rob Portman, and a blogger and political commentator.

Among the most notable writings on his blog are his strenuous arguments against gun safety measures, even in the immediate aftermath of the Aurora, Colorado and Newtown, Connecticut shootings. In the wake of the tragic mass shooting in Las Vegas, his views are especially disturbing and he should be questioned closely about them.

Alliance for Justice has prepared this brief fact sheet to highlight areas of Talley’s record in which we believe greater scrutiny by the Senate is warranted. This report does not attempt to analyze the entirety of his record.


Lack of Qualifications


Hostility to Gun Safety


Hostility to Reproductive Rights


Hostility to Civil Rights Laws


Hostility to Environmental Laws


Praise for an Icon of Extremism


Lack of Temperament Suitable for a Federal Judge

An important part of serving as a federal judge is to be open-minded, to hear both sides, and treat all litigants with respect. What is telling about Talley’s writings is how he demonstrably lacks this quality. He regularly demonizes persons who have different views on public policy, including ascribing bad and illicit motives to those who might disagree with him. Illustrative:

Finally, Talley wrote , “[t]o his credit and to the ultimate benefit of the nation, Trump has been far more conciliatory toward his erstwhile opponents than they would have been had Clinton won.” But President Trump has called for jailing Hillary Clinton. He has called United States Senators childish names: “Liddle Bob Corker;” “Little Marco,” “Lyin’ Ted,” “Pocahontas,” and “Cryin’ Chuck.” He has viciously attacked Senator Jeff Flake and Senator John McCain. He has threated the media with jail time and loss of broadcast licenses for reporting on him. He has encouraged private employers to fire individuals who criticize him. If Talley thinks this is “being conciliatory,” what should we expect from him in the courtroom?