On May 28, 2025, President Trump nominated Emil Bove to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. He was confirmed on July 29, 2025.

View/download the fact sheet here .

View/download the full report here .

View/download our letter of opposition here .


Introduction

On May 28, 2025, President Trump nominated Emil Bove to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Bove is nominated to fill the seat to which President Biden nominated the well-qualified Adeel Mangi in November 2023.

Mangi regrettably lost out on a final confirmation vote because of a December 2024 “deal” struck by Senate leadership to sacrifice any effort to confirm President Biden’s remaining circuit court nominees. Mangi would have brought both demographic and professional diversity to the federal bench, in addition to his unquestionable brilliance, impartiality, fairness, esteemed judgment, and commitment to the Constitution. If confirmed, he would’ve been the first Muslim appellate judge, and he demonstrated a strong commitment to civil rights through his pro bono work.

Unfortunately, Bove’s allegiance lies not with civil rights or the rule of law but with Trump and his authoritarian agenda to expand executive power far beyond the limits set by the Constitution. Bove’s rise to a senior position at the Department of Justice is largely a result of his work as Trump’s personal attorney. His loyalty to Trump is unmistakable, and his legal advocacy on Trump’s behalf foreshadowed his advancement of the administration’s current abuse of executive power.

Since joining the DOJ, Bove has continued to engage in radical, politically motivated activism, offering a preview of how he might wield power from the bench. The following sections detail cases argued by Bove, Department of Justice memos he authored, and memoranda he helped Attorney General Pam Bondi draft as part of their efforts to reshape the DOJ into a tool for targeting perceived political opponents and vulnerable communities. This report will provide a detailed and unflinching account of Bove’s legal and political views, examining the implications of his record in clear terms. As further illustrated below, Bove’s nomination to the federal bench directly threatens and assaults the very premise of an independent judiciary, one that adjudicates based on the rule of law, that protects the Constitution and the American people, and that acts as a pillar of democracy.


Biography

Emil Bove was born in 1981 in Seneca Falls, New York. He graduated from the University at Albany, SUNY in 2003, where he received a B.A. in public policy and economics. After graduating, Bove worked as a paralegal in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York before attending Georgetown University Law Center in 2005, earning his J.D. in 2008.

After graduating, Bove clerked for Judge Richard Sullivan (District Court for the Southern District of New York) until 2009 and for Judge Richard Wesley (Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit) the following year. After his clerkships, Bove joined Sullivan & Cromwell, where he worked until 2012.

In 2012, Bove joined the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York as an assistant attorney. In 2019, Bove was appointed co-chair of the office’s terrorism and international narcotics unit. During that time, the U.S. Attorney’s Office conducted an “internal inquiry” into Bove’s leadership of the terrorism and international narcotics unit after complaints were made about his “abusive” management style and temper. The investigation led to a recommendation that he be demoted from his position. Bove was also the subject of a letter to the office’s leadership by a group of defense attorneys and prosecutors who had worked with him saying Bove had used questionable tactics while litigating cases.

In 2023, Bove became a partner at Blanche Law, a firm founded by Todd Blanche. He then joined Blanche as second chair on Trump’s criminal defense team in a New York state court criminal trial, in which Trump was convicted of 34 felony counts of falsifying business records. Bove later represented Trump in federal cases relating to his mishandling of classified documents and his efforts to obstruct the certification of former President Biden’s electoral victory.

After Trump was re-elected, he appointed Bove to be principal associate deputy attorney general. Just a few months later, on January 20, 2025, Bove was named acting deputy attorney general. Approximately three months later, Trump nominated Bove to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, a court that has jurisdiction over Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.


Legal Experience

Bove held judicial clerkships with Judge Richard Sullivan of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (2008–2009) and Judge Richard Wesley of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (2009–2010). He then worked as an associate at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP (2010–2012). From 2012 to 2021, Bove served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York. He was appointed co-chair of the Office’s Terrorism and International Narcotics unit in 2019. His tenure there was marked by internal conflict; an “internal inquiry” was launched into his management, and several attorneys submitted a letter to leadership citing his use of coercive legal tactics and concerns about his conduct. Following his government service, Bove joined Chiesa, Shahinian & Giantomasi (2022–2023) and later became a partner at Blanche Law (2023–2025), a firm founded by Todd Blanche. During this time, Bove played a high-profile role on Donald Trump’s legal team in several criminal cases, including his New York trial — where Trump was convicted on 34 felony counts of falsifying business records — as well as the classified documents and election obstruction cases. Since January 2025, Bove has served as Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General, and briefly held the position of Acting Deputy Attorney General from January to March 2025.


Other Views