On July 31, 2024, President Biden nominated James Graham Lake to the District Columbia Superior Court. Currently serving as the chief of the Workers’ Rights & Antifraud Section at the Office of the Attorney General for the District of Columbia, Lake is a skilled labor lawyer with extensive experience representing and vindicating workers’ rights in state and federal courts.


Biography

Lake earned his B.A., with distinction, from Amherst College in 2005 and his M.S. from Pace University in 2008. He graduated magna cum laude with a J.D. from New York University School of Law in 2012.

Legal Experience

After graduating from law school, Lake served as a law clerk for Judge Mark R. Kravitz, Judge Janet Bond Arterton, and Judge Michael P. Shea of the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut from 2012 to 2013. He then clerked for Judge Harry T. Edwards on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit from 2013 to 2014.

Following his clerkships, Lake worked as an associate at Bredhoff & Kaiser PLLC from 2014 to 2019. At Bredhoff & Kaiser, Lake represented local and national labor unions in both state and federal court.

In 2019, Lake joined the Office of the Attorney General for the District of Columbia (OAG), where he worked as a trial attorney in the Office of Consumer Protection. In that role, he represented D.C. in complex proceedings, which included acting as the first chair in a trial that recovered losses for tenants who were subjected to deceptive representations.

Since 2021, Lake has served as the chief of the Workers’ Rights & Antifraud Section of the District of Columbia OAG, where he leads the district’s efforts to honor and protect workers’ rights to fair wages, overtime pay, and sick and safe leave. As chief, Lake supervises the OAG’s affirmative wage-and-hour litigation at the Superior Court of District of Columbia — a vital recourse for workers to recover wages wrongfully withheld.


Legal Career

The following cases are representative of Lake’s legal career: