On July 27, 2023, President Biden nominated Judge Joshua P. Kolar to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Judge Kolar has been a U.S. Magistrate Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Indiana since 2019. Judge Kolar also serves as a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve.


Biography

Judge Joshua Kolar was born in Chicago, Illinois, in 1976. He graduated with a B.A. from Northwestern University in 1999 and a J.D. from Northwestern University’s Pritzker School of Law in 2003. In 2009, Judge Kolar was commissioned to the United States Navy Reserve. He continues to serve as a Lieutenant Commander.


Legal Experience

After law school, Judge Kolar worked as an associate at Mayer Brown LLP for two years. His work included antitrust matters, criminal defense, internal investigations, civil RICO cases, and pro bono representation of indigent clients. From 2005-2006, Judge Kolar clerked for the Honorable Wayne R. Andersen of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. After clerking, Judge Kolar returned to Mayer Brown for a year, representing individuals and corporations in grand jury investigations and complex civil litigation as well as conducting internal investigations.

From 2007 to 2018, Judge Kolar worked for the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Indiana. He represented the United States in criminal matters including investigations and prosecutions of public corruption, terrorism-related offenses, sanctions violations, violent crimes, narcotics conspiracies, and firearms offenses. During this period, he secured more than a dozen jury verdicts and argued numerous cases before the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals.

During his tenure as an Assistant U.S. Attorney, Judge Kolar was also deployed to Afghanistan as a Navy Intelligence Officer for portions of 2014 and 2015. Upon returning to the U.S. Attorney’s Office, he served as the National Security Lead and Anti-Terrorism Advisory Council Coordinator, in which he managed all national security cases throughout the Northern District of Indiana. For example, in United States v. Elhassani , Judge Kolar successfully prosecuted the defendant for conspiracy to provide material support to ISIS after she and her husband traveled to Syria with their young children to join the terrorist organization.


Judicial Experience

In 2019, Judge Kolar was appointed to serve as a United States Magistrate Judge on the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana. In this role, he rules on dispositive motions and presides over trials in civil cases. In criminal cases, he reviews search and seizure warrants, presides over initial appearances and arraignments, and rules in detention and preliminary hearings as well as conducting final pretrial conferences. He also presides over the misdemeanor docket for the district court.


Professional Activities and Accolades

Judge Kolar serves as Chair of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana’s Local Rules Committee.

The Department of Defense has honored Judge Kolar with multiple awards in recognition of his exemplary service, including the Joint Service Commendation Medal (2022), the Defense Meritorious Service Medal (2015), the Joint Meritorious Unit Award (2015), the Afghanistan Campaign Medal (2015), the Armed Forces Reserve Medal (2015), the Department of Defense, National Defense Service Medal (2009), and the Department of Defense, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal (2009). Additionally, in 2015, he earned the Navy and Marine Corps Overseas Service Ribbon and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s International Security Assistance Force Medal.

The following cases are representative of Judge Kolar’s judicial career: