On August 1, 2022, President Joe Biden nominated Julie Rikelman to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. The former U.S. Litigation Director for the Center for Reproductive Rights, Rikelman was a veteran civil rights litigator known for her work protecting reproductive rights in state and federal courts throughout the country. She also spent a decade in various corporate litigation practices. She was confirmed on June 20, 2023.

Read our fact sheet. Read our letter of support.


Biography

Julie Rikelman was born in Kiev, Ukraine in 1972. When she was six years old, her family immigrated to the United States after they experienced discrimination due to their Jewish heritage in the former Soviet Union. Barely speaking English, they settled in Brookline, Massachusetts in 1979. When they arrived, Rikelman’s parents had limited finances, no promised employment, and relied on government assistance and non-profit organizations to make ends meet.

Rikelman learned English as a second language and said that seeing her family’s struggle shaped her interest in civil rights. She went on to earn her bachelor’s degree, magna cum laude , and law degree, cum laude , from Harvard in 1993 and 1997.


Legal Experience

Following law school, Rikelman clerked for two appellate judges: Justice Dana Fabe, the first woman justice on Alaska Supreme Court, and Judge Morton I. Greenberg, a Reagan appointee on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. From 1999 to 2001, she was a Blackmun Fellow at the Center for Reproductive Rights. The fellowship’s namesake, Justice Blackmun, was a Nixon appointee who wrote the Supreme Court’s majority opinion in Roe v. Wade . During her two-year fellowship, Rikelman helped litigate numerous reproductive rights cases around the country, including serving as lead counsel in two federal district court matters and second-chairing a one-week trial in state court.

From 2001 to 2011, Rikelman worked in private practice in various capacities. She started as an Associate at Feldman & Orlansky in Anchorage, Alaska, handling a wide range of civil and criminal trials and appeals in state and federal courts. Rikelman’s caseload spanned the gamut — from commercial breach of contract to redistricting and medical malpractice. In 2004, she returned to the East Coast, joining Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP’s New York office as a Senior Associate focused on complex commercial cases. There, Rikelman typically represented large corporations, including defending JPMorgan Chase Bank in multi-party, securities fraud litigation. In 2006, she joined the media conglomerate NBC Universal as in-house litigation counsel, where she served as lead counsel for cases involving defamation, intellectual property, breach of contract, and the First Amendment. Rikelman was promoted to Vice President of Litigation during her last year at NBC Universal.

In 2011, Rikelman returned to the Center for Reproductive Rights as a senior staff attorney and rose to her current role as U.S. Litigation Director the following year. In this capacity, Rikelman has litigated high-profile reproductive rights cases on behalf of health care providers and other organizations nationwide, in addition to leading the Center’s U.S. litigation strategy overall and playing a supervisory role for junior attorneys.

Rikelman is a highly experienced litigator who has argued and briefed dozens of procedural and substantive motions; tried seven cases in state and federal court; and argued six appeals, including two in the U.S. Supreme Court. Her career has been a mix of public interest and corporate litigation, giving her experience with many areas of law, from securities fraud to environmental and constitutional law.

The following cases are representative of Rikelman’s career in corporate and election law: