On May 23, 2024, President Biden nominated Karla M. Campbell to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Campbell currently serves as Of Counsel for prestigious plaintiff’s side employment and labor law firm Stranch Jennings & Garvey.

Read our letter of support.


Background

Campbell was born in Knoxville, Tennessee in 1979. She earned her B.A. from the University of Virginia (UVA) in 2002 and her J.D. from the Georgetown University Law Center in 2008. At UVA, Campbell was awarded Highest Distinction from the Distinguished Majors Program and was on the Dean’s List every year of her attendance. Similarly lauded at Georgetown, she received the CALI Excellence for the Future Award in the Spring of 2007.

Before attending law school, Campbell spent three years in Ecuador working for the Peace Corps. During that time, she earned a certificate in Refugee and Humanitarian Emergencies.


Legal Experience

After graduating from law school, Campbell joined D.C. law firm Watson & Renner. While working for the firm, Campbell also served as an International Affairs Specialist for the United States Department of the Interior. In 2009, she left D.C. to clerk for Judge Jane Branstetter Stranch of the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. Campbell was hired before Judge Stranch’s confirmation and briefly worked for Nashville law firm Branstetter Stranch & Jennings (now “Stranch Jennings & Garvey”) while waiting for her clerkship to begin. Campbell was in the first cohort of clerks for Judge Stranch and is now nominated to fill Judge Stranch’s seat on the Sixth Circuit.

Following her clerkship, Campbell returned to Jennings as an associate. She has since been elevated first to Partner and then to Of Counsel, her current role. Campbell’s work at the firm largely involves plaintiff’s side employment and labor law. During her 13 years at the firm, Campbell has litigated everything from union-management disputes to employee benefits cases. The majority of her practice has been in federal courts – a whopping 80% – though she does have experience practicing before state courts and administrative agencies.

In addition to her litigation work, Campbell routinely negotiates high-level community benefits agreements for local organizations. She negotiated Tennessee’s first community benefits agreement between Nashville community organizations and the developers of Geodis Park, the city’s new Major League Soccer stadium. Campbell’s impressive negotiation skills ensured that community members could play a role in stadium development. Since her resounding success in the Geodis Park negotiation, Campbell has negotiated numerous other community benefits agreements. These negotiations are but another example of Campbell using her legal expertise to help her community.