On May 23, 2024, President Biden nominated Mary Kay Lanthier to the United States District Court for the District of Vermont. Lanthier currently serves as a supervising attorney at the Rutland County Public Defender’s Office. Through her extensive experience as a public defender, Lanthier will provide the bench with much-needed professional diversity, if confirmed.

Read our letter of support.


Biography

Mary Kay Lanthier was born in 1971 in Rutland, Vermont. She received her B.A from Amherst College in 1993 and her J.D. from Northwestern University School of Law in 1996.


Legal Experience

Lanthier began her legal career as a trial court law clerk for the Chittenden County District Court. During her first year as a law clerk, Lanthier was assigned to a criminal trial court in Chittenden County, where she gained invaluable experience observing judges in the state’s busiest criminal court. She drafted decisions for motions involving Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Amendment issues and witnessed numerous evidentiary hearings and jury trials. Lanthier also assisted judges by drafting jury instructions and ruling on motions in limine. In her second year, Lanthier’s responsibilities expanded to include civil, family, and criminal dockets in Addison County. She primarily supported the judge in civil court, drafting decisions in cases involving breach of contract, the exclusive remedy provisions of workers’ compensation, foreclosures, and jurisdictional issues. Additionally, she assisted during civil jury trials, further honing her legal skills.

After completing her clerkship, Lanthier joined Keiner & Dumont, P.C. in Middlebury, Vermont in 1998. As an associate at this small law firm, she focused on family law, workers’ compensation, and criminal cases. Her duties included legal research and writing, drafting pleadings, and participating in litigation activities such as depositions, court hearings, and mediations. She also provided crucial litigation support in civil cases, including document review and appellate filings. In 2000, Lanthier transitioned to the Addison County Public Defender’s Office, where she represented low-income individuals charged with felonies and misdemeanors. Her role involved leading in arraignments, discovery, depositions, motion hearings, criminal jury trials, and sentencing hearings, demonstrating her dedication to public defense.

In 2003, Lanthier returned to private practice at Marsh & Wagner, a small law firm in Middlebury, Vermont. There, she continued to practice family law, real estate law, and criminal defense. Her responsibilities included drafting discovery, conducting depositions, and leading in contested court hearings, including criminal jury trials, solidifying her diverse legal expertise and commitment to her clients. In 2007, Lanthier returned to public service by joining the Rutland County Public Defender’s Office. Several months after joining the office, she was promoted to supervising attorney. In this role, she represents individuals charged with various crimes who have been determined by the court to be financially unable to afford counsel, advocating for clients at all stages of the trial court process. In addition to her representation and litigation duties, Lanthier oversees the attorneys, investigators, and support staff in the office, ensuring the smooth daily operations and professional development of the team. She manages individual caseloads, providing guidance and support to her colleagues. Lanthier also collaborates with the court and other agencies involved in the judicial process, working to develop and implement efficient and effective policies and procedures. Her leadership and dedication to justice make her an invaluable asset to the public defender’s office and her clients.

The following cases are representative of Lanthier’s legal career: