On February 21, 2024, President Biden nominated Judge Nancy L. Maldonado to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Maldonado is a talented jurist with an impressive background in labor and employment law. In 2022, she made history as the first Latina to serve as a federal judge in the state of Illinois. If confirmed, she would again make history as the first Latinx judge to serve on the Seventh Circuit.


Biography

Maldonado was born in Skokie, Illinois to parents who migrated to the United States from Puerto Rico. She earned her A.B., cum laude , from Harvard College in 1997, spending all four years on the Dean’s List. After graduation, Maldonado joined Illinois-based civil rights firm Miner, Barnhill & Galland P.C. (“Miner”) as a paralegal.

After one year working as a paralegal, Maldonado left Miner to attend Columbia Law School. In law school, she served on the editorial board of the Columbia Human Rights Law Review and interned with the Asociación Pro Derechos Humanos, a Peruvian human rights organization. Maldonado also earned the prestigious designation of Stone Scholar – an honor for outstanding academic achievement – from 1999 until her graduation in 2001.


Legal Experience

After law school, Maldonado spent two years clerking for Judge Rubén Castillo of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. She then returned to Miner as an associate. At Miner, Maldonado litigated federal labor and employment, civil rights, and fraud cases. Initially, she predominantly represented farmworkers in wage and hour cases, as well as employees facing harassment and discrimination. Over the years, her practice broadened, and by the time she joined the bench, she had represented everyone from pipefitters to doctors to bricklayers .

Despite her busy firm practice, Maldonado found time to serve her home state in various government roles. In 2019, Governor J.B. Pritzker appointed her to the Illinois State Police Merit Board. The Board selects state police officers through a fair and equitable process and is responsible for the promotion and discipline of these officers. In 2021, Illinois Attorney General Kwame Raoul appointed her to serve as a Special Assistant Attorney General investigating consumer fraud. Maldonado was also selected to serve as a monitor of numerous consent decrees resolving employment cases brought by the Illinois Attorney General.

The following cases are representative of Maldonado’s career as a practicing attorney: