On November 15, 2023, President Biden nominated Nicole G. Berner to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Since 2006, Ms. Berner has served as the Service Employees International Union’s General Counsel, supporting workers and unions across the country. If confirmed, she will be the first openly LGBTQ+ judge to serve on the Fourth Circuit.

Read AFJ’s Letter of Support .


Biography

Ms. Berner was born in Woking, England, in 1965. Soon thereafter, she moved to Oakland, California, where she spent the bulk of her childhood. In 1988, she earned her B.A. in Women’s Studies from the University of California at Berkeley (UC Berkeley), graduating Phi Beta Kappa. She returned to her alma mater for graduate school, graduating in 1996 with both a J.D., Order of the Coif, and an M.A. in Public Policy.

Ms. Berner is a citizen of the United States, the United Kingdom, and Israel, and has lived in all three countries. Ms. Berner and then-wife Ms. Ruti Kadish were the subject of a landmark 2000 Israeli Supreme Court case: Berner-Kadish v. Ministry of the Interior . At the time, the Israeli government refused to recognize same-sex parentage , meaning that Ms. Berner, who is not biologically related to her child, was not initially legally recognized as her son’s mother. The family appealed their case to the Israeli Supreme Court , which ruled that Ms. Berner was also her child’s legal mother under Israeli law. Thanks to this ruling, Ms. Berner and Ms. Kadish’s child was the first to be recognized as having two mothers under Israeli law. Ms. Berner’s bravery in bringing this court case testifies to her commitment to justice and her steadfast belief in equality under the law. Her efforts created a better world for LGBTQ+ families in Israel.


Legal Experience

After law school, Ms. Berner clerked first for Judge Thelton E. Henderson of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California and then for Judge Betty B. Fletcher of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Following her clerkships, Ms. Berner moved to Israel where she worked as a visiting attorney for prominent Jerusalem-based firm Yigal Arnon & Co., representing Israeli tech companies in complex international transactions. After two years in Israel, she moved back to the U.S. and joined Jenner & Block LLP as an associate litigation attorney. In this role, she participated in trial and appellate litigation, conducting discovery, interviewing witnesses, and drafting various pleadings.

In 2002, Ms. Berner transitioned to a career in public interest, joining the Planned Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA) as a staff attorney. Ms. Berner’s practice focused largely on access to medication abortion, but she also reviewed various state and federal policy proposals aimed at expanding reproductive health care access. In 2006, Ms. Berner left PPFA to join the Service Employee International Union (SEIU). SEIU is a 2-million-member strong union dedicating to improving the lives of American workers.

Ms. Berner’s role at the SEIU is a broad one. She litigates SEIU cases in state and federal courts, as well as participating in union negotiations and representing workers and unions before various labor regulatory bodies. Ms. Berner’s issue area expertise is similarly broad: She has litigated cases under the National Labor Relations Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, and the Fair Labor Standards Act as well as constitutional claims. Since joining SEIU almost two decades ago, Ms. Berner has been unwavering in her fight to protect and expand the rights of American workers.


Professional Activities and Accolades

Ms. Berner’s legal prowess has earned her numerous awards. She is an elected member of the American Law Institute, a prestigious honor given to highly qualified lawyers committed to advancing the law. She was also chosen to join the Fellows of the American Bar Foundation, an honorary society of attorneys who “have demonstrated outstanding dedication to the highest principles of the legal profession.” O nly 1 percent of licensed attorneys are invited to join.

Ms. Berner has also received accolades for her work in employment law specifically. She was named one of Lawdragon’s 500 Leading Plaintiff Employment & Civil Rights Lawyers in 2021, 2022, and 2023. In 2021, she was also chosen to serve as a Fellow for the College of Labor and Employment Law , an honor reserved to “the most accomplished members of the labor and employment law community” that aims “to promote achievement, advancement, and excellence in the practice of Labor and Employment Law.”

Remarkably, given her intense legal career, Ms. Berner has consistently taken time to give back to her community. She is on the board of the National Partnership for Women and Families, as well as Jobs with Justice. The National Partnership for Women and Families aims to “support those who face the greatest barriers to equity and opportunity” and “amplify the leadership of grassroots groups and women of color who are fighting for social justice.” Jobs with Justice is similarly community-oriented and “believes that all workers should have collective bargaining rights, employment security and a decent standard of living within an economy that works for everyone.” Ms. Berner also plays an active role in Jews United for Justice, an organization dedicated to improving the lives of those in the Baltimore-DC area . In 2014, Ms. Berner received their Heschel Vision Award , which honors those who “fus[e] deep moral commitments with their activism.”

The following six cases are representative of Ms. Berner’s litigation career: