On September 7, 2017, President Trump nominated Ryan Bounds to a seat on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Bounds was nominated to replace Judge Diarmuid O’Scannlain, who assumed senior status on December 31, 2016.

Alliance for Justice has prepared this snapshot to highlight areas of Bounds’s record, based on our review thus far, in which we believe greater scrutiny by the Senate is warranted. AFJ has not reviewed his entire record. For example, materials from his work in the George W. Bush Administration, contained at the George W. Bush Library, including folders of material on such issues as the rights of persons with disabilities, crack/powder cocaine disparity, and firearm safety, are not available to the public and therefore could not be reviewed.

There are serious questions about Bounds’s independence. Republican Congressmen Greg Walden, whose chief of staff is Bounds’s sister, called Bounds “the rare Oregonian with a sincere commitment to conservative jurisprudence.” As one Oregonian journalist wrote, “President Donald Trump’s nominee for the Ninth Circuit [Ryan Bounds] could act as an advocate for Trump’s immigration agenda, according to lawyers who know him.”

Like the vast majority of Trump’s nominees, Bounds is a member of the Federalist Society, an outside group to which Trump has indicated he has delegated the identification of candidates for judicial nominations.

Also similar to many of Trump’s nominations, the nomination of Ryan Bounds was made without the advice and consent of his home-state senators.

Under President Obama, Republican members of the Senate Judiciary Committee made clear that a nominee’s writings, including those dating back to the nominee’s time in college, were grounds to oppose confirmation.  For example, Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee, including Senators Mike Lee and Jon Kyle, pressed Jesse Furman, a former Assistant United States Attorney in New York, about an article he wrote as an undergraduate critical of the National Rifle Association. As Senator Chuck Grassley said in opposing Furman, “When we considered his nomination last year, a few items of concern were raised. These issues included writings he made while in college on gun control[.]”

AFJ’s review finds that while at Stanford University:

Read more on Bounds’s background.


More on Bounds


AFJ Applauds Withdrawal of Bounds Nomination


Press Release


Ninth Circuit Nominee Bounds Has History of Racist Statements


Press Release


Vote on Bounds Is “Shameful”


Press Release


Bounds Doubles Down on Obfuscation of His Record


AFJ Opposes Ryan Bounds