On October 4th, 2023, President Biden nominated Sarah F. Russell to the District Court for the District of Connecticut. Professor Russell is Director of the Civil Justice Clinic at Quinnipiac University School of Law. Her teaching and research interests include sentencing policy, juvenile justice, prison conditions, and access to justice. Russell previously represented indigent defendants at the Office of the Federal Public Defender for the District of Connecticut.

Read AFJ’s Letter of Support .

Biography

Professor Russell was born in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1976. She attended Yale College then Yale Law School, earning her B.A. in Ethics, Politics, and Economics in 1998 and her J.D. in 2002.

Legal Experience

Russell began her legal career as a law clerk for Judge Michael B. Mukasey, then Chief Judge of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. She then went on to clerk for Judge Chester J. Straub on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. After clerking, Professor Russell worked as a federal public defender in New Haven, Connecticut, representing indigent clients at both the trial and appellate levels.

In 2007, Russell joined Yale Law School as a lecturer and associate research scholar in law. She served as the Director of the Arthur Liman Public Interest Program, managing the law school’s public interest fellowship program and mentoring students interested in pursuing public interest law. She also held weekly workshops on public interest law topics ranging from imprisonment to federalism to detention. A strong advocate for the rights of incarcerated individuals, Ms. Russell also oversaw the Prison Legal Services and Complex Federal Litigation Clinics. In these clinics, students represented incarcerated individuals in state and federal confinement cases.

In 2011, Russell began teaching at Quinnipiac University School of Law. She is the Director of both the Juvenile Sentencing Project and the Legal Clinic. The Juvenile Sentencing Project reviews the treatment of children in the adult criminal justice system and advocates for policy changes to juvenile justice programs. The Legal Clinic facilitates student representation of indigent clients in cases ranging from family law to prison conditions to housing. Ms. Russell was awarded tenure in 2015 and currently serves as the Carmen Tortora Professor of Law.

The following cases are representative of Professor Russell’s legal career:

Professional Activities and Accolades

Professor Russell was appointed to serve on the District of Connecticut’s Federal Grievance Committee in 2015. The Committee reviews misconduct complaints against attorneys licensed to practice before the court. In 2016, Governor Malloy appointed Russell to the Connecticut Sentencing Commission, for which she sits on the Steering Committee and as Vice-Chair of the Incarceration and Collateral Consequences Committee. In 2020, Russell was appointed Counsel to the Committee by former Chief Judge Stefan R. Underhill. Judge Underhill also appointed Russell to serve as a member of the District Court’s Standing Committee on the Criminal Justice Act, which evaluates the court’s policies for attorneys representing indigent defendants under that Act. She served as a member of the Committee from 2019 to 2023.

Russell’s work has earned her a variety of professional accolades. In 2013, she was named a “New Leader in the Law” by the Connecticut Law Tribune and in 2014 she was named one of the Connecticut Women’s Education and Legal Fund’s “40 Women for the Next 40 Years.”